NGF: Add document for upstream http2 (#2021)
nginx/documentation: content/ngf/traffic-management/upstream-http2-appprotocol.md

---
title: Configure upstream HTTP/2 through Service appProtocol
toc: true
weight: 1600
f5-content-type: how-to
f5-product: FABRIC
f5-docs: DOCS-0000
description: Configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to use HTTP/2 for upstream connections by setting appProtocol to kubernetes.io/h2c on a Kubernetes Service port.
f5-keywords: NGINX Gateway Fabric, HTTP/2, upstream HTTP/2, appProtocol, kubernetes.io/h2c, proxy_http_version, h2c, upstream connections, Service appProtocol, Gateway API, HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute

> f5-summary: This guide shows you how to configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to proxy requests to upstream services over HTTP/2 by setting appProtocol to kubernetes.io/h2c on a Kubernetes Service port. Using HTTP/2 for upstream connections enables multiplexing and reduces latency for services that support it. This guide is for operators and developers who have NGINX Gateway Fabric installed and are familiar with Kubernetes Services and the Gateway API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
f5-summary: This guide describes how to configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to proxy requests to upstream services over HTTP/2 by setting appProtocol to kubernetes.io/h2c on a Kubernetes Service port. Using HTTP/2 for upstream connections enables multiplexing and reduces latency for services that support it. This guide is for operators and developers who have NGINX Gateway Fabric installed and are familiar with Kubernetes Services and the Gateway API.
```

---

> Learn how to configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to use HTTP/2 when proxying requests to upstream services using the Service `appProtocol`.

Reviewer 2: `appProtocol` is a application protocol for a service port so this sentence seems misleading a bit?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn how to configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to use HTTP/2 when proxying requests to upstream services. 
```

I think should be enough here

Author: Changed to `Learn how to configure NGINX Gateway Fabric to use HTTP/2 when proxying requests to upstream services using the Service port's `appProtocol` field.` I still want to include the appProtocol field since I feel like its a core part.

## Overview

> The `appProtocol` field on a Kubernetes Service port provides a way to specify an application protocol. Implementations of a controller such as NGINX Gateway Fabric use this field to offer richer behavior for protocols that are understood. For more information, view the official [Kubernetes Service Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#application-protocol).

Reviewer: Consider rephrasing.

The `appProtocol` field on a Kubernetes Service port provides a way to specify an application protocol. Controllers such as NGINX Gateway Fabric use this field to enable protocol-specific functionality for supported protocols.

    Observed Generation:   1
    Reason:                Accepted
    Status:                True
    Type:                  Accepted
    Last Transition Time:  2026-06-03T05:21:38Z
    Message:               The Gateway is programmed
    Observed Generation:   1
    Reason:                Programmed
    Status:                True
    Type:                  Programmed
```

Create the **coffee** HTTPRoute:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: coffee
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: cafe
  hostnames:
  - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /coffee
    backendRefs:
    - name: coffee
      port: 80
EOF
```

## Verify the NGINX configuration

Inspect the NGINX configuration to confirm that `proxy_http_version 2` is set for the **coffee** location:

```shell
kubectl exec -it deployments/gateway-nginx -- nginx -T
```

Look for the location block that routes traffic to the **coffee** upstream. It should contain `proxy_http_version 2`:

```nginx
location /coffee {
    ...
    proxy_http_version 2;
    proxy_pass http://default_coffee_80;
    ...
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: so the curl doesn't return the protocol? or a different response to identify a http2 connection?

Author: The upstream application in this example doesn't respond back with http2 responses/ "doesn't speak http2" so it won't really work with a curl request. I don't really feel the need to show a response with a working http2-available backend, so I felt that just showing the nginx conf would suffice.

If you feel like its necessary to show a curl request, basically checking if the nginx conf ` proxy_http_version 2;` works, then we can consider that, but I don't feel the need.

Reviewer 2: A user guide implies end-to-end coverage. If this doesn't do that, it should be scoped down to a section within a larger doc, this feels incomplete to me. 

could this be part of data plane configuration section as part of how to?

Reviewer 2: we could do a small section to enable HTTP2 on a service section

Author: >A user guide implies end-to-end coverage. If this doesn't do that, it should be scoped down to a section within a larger doc, this feels incomplete to me.
>could this be part of data plane configuration section as part of how to?

I agree, I like to have curl requests and have sections verifying that traffic flows correctly, but that is essentially verifying that the NGINX product works correctly. I also think end-to-end can mean Kubernetes yaml -> nginx configuration generation. Users of NGF don't necessarily always need to validate nginx configuration works, as our product is mainly involved with generating correct nginx configuration.

The data plane configuration document primarily discusses the `NginxProxy` resource. 

>The data plane configuration is stored in the `NginxProxy` custom resource...

So I think that would be out of place.

There already is precedence of the practice of just verifying nginx configuration in the Upstream settings policy document https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/traffic-management/upstream-settings/. In that document, the primary way the guide is showing to the user that the policies work, is by verifying nginx configuration.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, i think in that case we should improve that document.

I am not convinced it should be standalone document. We could also just convert the [disable HTTP2](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/data-plane-configuration/#disable-http2-for-a-gateway) section in the data plane configuration to `HTTP2` only. That could talk about both how to enable and disable it. 

Disabling using NginxProxy and enabled by adding a `appProtocol: h2c` field to a service and check for specific line in configuration.

Reviewer 2: I think we have separate views on this, we should get a second opinion and see what makes the most sense to majority.

Reviewer 2: Is my understanding correct that disabling HTTP/2 at the NGINX level affects all services referencing the route, or does it only apply to incoming connections to NGINX itself? 

I'd assume there's still some dependency between the protocol allowed on the ingress side and what gets forwarded upstream even if NGINX can translate between protocols, the incoming connection type likely influences the end-to-end behavior. Want to make sure I understand the dependency

Author: Will be waiting for another engineer's review. 

>Is my understanding correct that disabling HTTP/2 at the NGINX level affects all services referencing the route, or does it only apply to incoming connections to NGINX itself?

Disabling http2 at the `http` context, removes the ability for NGINX to process http2 requests from users/clients, they will most likely fallback to http 1.1. 

`proxy_http_version 2.0` requires http2 at the server or http context to be enabled.

Reviewer 2: sounds good, looks good to me overall.

## Important Notes

- `kubernetes.io/h2c` is supported on HTTPRoutes and GRPCRoutes. It isn't supported on TLSRoutes.

> - For NGINX to set `proxy_http_version 2` for a location, all valid backend references in the routing rule must have `appProtocol: kubernetes.io/h2c` set on their Service ports. If any valid backend doesn't use `kubernetes.io/h2c`, NGINX falls back to the default HTTP/1.1.

Reviewer 2: i think this could be in the troubleshooting section

Author: Would that be in a different file? I feel like this is relevant enough to this feature that I would want it all contained in this single file. I can put it in a different section in the file if you think that would be better

Reviewer 2: no, just after other supported protocols section

Author: After some thought, I think its more suited for where it is currently. The statement isn't really the highlighting of a potential issue rather it is highlighting an important note / requirement to avoid an issue. Additionally, creating a new troubleshooting section with only one bullet point feels incomplete.

Reviewer 2: We have a precedence of having [troubleshooting](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/traffic-security/oidc-authentication/#troubleshooting) section in our individual guides so its not really anything out of standard. 

Its a troubleshooting pointer, it should be part of that section.

Author: I agree with you having troubleshooting sections is not anything out of standard. 

However, I don't believe its a troubleshooting pointer. 

>The statement isn't really the highlighting of a potential issue rather it is highlighting an important note / requirement to avoid an issue. 

The troubleshooting sections are usually "If you have these problems... here is the fix". This statement is more of a "Make sure you do these steps so you don't run into an issue".

Author: And my statement of 

>Additionally, creating a new troubleshooting section with only one bullet point feels incomplete.

still stands.

Reviewer 2: The troubleshooting entry is actually validated by the steps themselves, if you skip setting the protocol, you hit some error. That's how you figured it required for this step
That's precisely the kind of thing worth documenting like here's the error you'll see, and here's how to fix it. 

I am not convinced with the argument of not having single-item troubleshooting section.

Reviewer 2: maybe I am not framing my concern right here, but your statement here. 

> important note / requirement to avoid an issue.

It sounds like you ran into some issue to come to this conclusion. Is there a specific error you see when your egress and ingress connections have different http2 (enabled and disabled mode) ? If yes, maybe add that pointer in the trouble shooting section as it maybe helpful

I have the same question about the same [above](https://github.com/nginx/documentation/pull/2021#discussion_r3502649841)

Author: Added a troubleshooting section to address this suggestion. 

>It sounds like you ran into some issue to come to this conclusion. Is there a specific error you see when your egress and ingress connections have different http2 (enabled and disabled mode) ?

I did not run into any issue and there is no specific error since this is expected behavior.
